Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the first session of the 86th Congress came
to an end last week shortly after 6 a.m. on Tuesday, just before Mr. Cruise Chef arrived
in town.
One of the last pieces of business at the Senate and House acted upon was the question
of whether or not to continue the Civil Rights Commission.
I join my colleague, Senator Albert Gore and the Distinguished Majority Leader, and
69 other senators in voting for the Continuance of this Commission.
I predict that we will be more than happy that we have this group in being when the next
session of the Congress sits next year, because sometime before the final vote was taken
on its continuance, several senators who have been pushing hard for drastic punitive civil
rights legislation gave notice that they will be ready to go to bat for such legislation
on February 15th of next year.
If we permit this extreme legislation, if we are to prevent this extreme legislation from
passing, we will have in the Civil Rights Commission a powerful argument against taking
hasty and punitive action, far as long as the Commission is seeking the answer to these
problems, which have a direct effect on the South, drastic steps will be that much harder
to ram through the Congress.
When the Senate first considered establishing the Civil Rights Commission, I voted for
it.
Because I believe these are very serious problems that deserve careful and considered study.
The right of every qualified citizen to vote, for instance, is to me sacred and basic.
And I think any intelligent investigation of voting privileges of any of our citizens is
worthwhile.
The first report of the Commission, which I have studied very closely, is not I must say
a very satisfactory one.
I am aware, of course, of the limitations of time under which the Commission had to work.
But that is really no excuse for a careless staff work or for half-big proposals, and
the report shows both.
I was glad to note however that the Commission recognizes that in 93 of the 95 counties
of Tennessee, there is no question whatsoever of the right of any qualified citizen to
vote, and we are proud of that.
In two counties, there is somewhat of a problem, and that is something in which the thoughtful
people of Tennessee and in date of these counties are concerned.
But in one of these counties, Haywood, the Commission shows the result of end-up staff work.
For example, allegations that niggros own more property and pay more taxes in that county
than whites, and that they must observe a curfew, and that they are not permitted near
the courthouse unless they have business, are just not true.
I know that they are not true.
I have visited Haywood County not once, but many, many times.
I think such careless handling of the facts by a federal commission is inexcusable.
I resented all the more because concerning Haywood County, because that is the home county
of my late beloved mother, and I have many relatives and close friends there.
Many of the recommendations of the Commission are just as carelessly conceived and wonder
far from what I believe to be the intended scope.
The recommendation, for instance, of federal registrars, for voting is one.
That is a problem that must be handled locally and not from the top.
I believe the Commission needlessly went into some fields of housing, which aggravates
an already difficult situation.
But while I am highly displeased with much of the Commission's work, although it does
have some merit, frankly, I believe we must take a hard look at the alternatives to continuing
the Commission.
I did just that.
And I believe the next session of Congress will bear out my conclusions.
The extension of the Commission's life may be the best way we have to prevent legislation
which would be harshly unfair to the South.
If the South opposes even a study of the problems involved, then I'm afraid we may reap a whirlwind.
As Commissioner Bottle, a distinguished member of the Commission and former Governor
of Virginia said, we need to have considerably more discussion of the problems of human
relations before legislative action is taken.
Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the last telecast of this year.
I want to thank the Station for carrying these as a public servant service.
And I hope that we can continue them on next year.
And I want to thank you who have watched these for your suggestions and for your ideas.
And it's been my great pleasure to make them.
Until the next session of Congress, goodbye.